so now that we've got the layout change
to include our extra button it's time to
write the code to make the button work
now remember that the solution I'm going
to show you is only one solution so if
your solution works so then that's fine
and you've completed the challenge so
what I'm going to do first is start by
deleting all the commented out code from
a few videos ago so I'm going to open my
project pane I'm going to come down to
our main activity and I'm going to
delete all this code as I mentioned
there has been commented out now I don't
need to delete the imports but depending
how you've configured Android studio you
might have to import lines here that if
now showing us unused this little grayed
out so if that's the case that probably
being commented out if you followed been
following a previous video so delete
those now but in my case because I've
configured Android studio to
automatically remove unused imports I
don't need to do anything there but I'm
going to go ahead and delete this block
of here that's been I've commented out
the three private definitions then also
down here this block of code which we
discussed the reasons why we don't need
that anymore in the previous video a few
videos ago and delete that as well
and just clear up some empty lines there
as well alright so you may have decided
to change the listener for the operator
button and include the neg button that's
just another operator for my solution
though I decided to create a new
listener in the same way as we used in
the last section so what I'm going to do
is add that to the end of the oncreate
method right down here down the bottom
basically here on line 58 so I'm going
to type button neg dot set
onclicklistener
and now I would say unset click listener
needs the code so we're going to start
with left curly brace view and an arrow
then on the next line Val value is equal
to a new number dot txt dot to string
we're going to do a test here to see
whether it's simply so if value is that
is empty
if it is empty and we are open a code
block and we're going to set the new
number or set number the edittext dot
set text parentheses and we're going to
set that to the mono sign then the
negative sign otherwise we're going to
do some more processing so I'm gonna
have an else block there we're going to
start the else block with a try and
we're going to catch e : and it's going
to be a number format exception number
form a exception and what we're trying
to do here is we're going to put a
comment here indicating what would have
happened for a number format exception
so in in this case the new number was
set to that already or a period so clear
it if that's the case new number dot set
text parentheses and two double quotes
just to an empty string so that's what
happened if the new number formats
exception is thrown assuming it's not
throwing we want to add some code there
to process the number accordingly so
we're gonna put var double value is
equal to value dot to double then we're
gonna type double value star equals 1 is
1 so we're multiplying the value by
negative 1 then gonna type new number
dot set text double value dot to string
so converting it back to a string so
that we can set the edit text back with
the belly and that should effectively be
it so I've set the onclick listener
basically in the same ways we did for
the button click counter using a lambda
now no other buttons will be using this
listener so there's no need to create a
named instance but there's no problem if
you have in your solution and we'll
probably get a warning from Android
studio because one of our layouts
doesn't have a button neg so if you see
that don't worry too much about that
come over here and have a look and I've
got a semicolon there for my Java die so
let me delete that because it's warning
us about that which you don't need
because of course this is Kotlin lot
Java
and this is the other one I was talking
about the resource is missing in some of
Layard versions primitive viewers never
used I was talking about the fact here
that we don't basically don't have a
button neg button on both our layouts
because of course we've only at the
moment updated the landscape version so
the code itself is pretty simple if the
text in the widget is empty then we're
setting it to the minors character and
we're done let's just code up here on
line 61 now the fourth the other digit
buttons will add their digits after the
minors so negative numbers can be
entered however if the input text isn't
blank we go into the else code block
their code then tries to negate any
number that may have been typed into the
widget now if that works the number is
multiplied by negative 1 to negate it
here on line 65 then the widget is
updated with a new value so positive
numbers in that scenario become negative
and negative numbers become positive and
that's exactly what we want here if
however there wasn't a valid number then
that's going to be picked up by the
try-catch block now we've already
checked for an empty string and we're
actually setting the text to a minus
sign if that is the case so we don't
need to check for that again in the
catch block so the only other values
that could cause the catch block to be
entered are the minus symbol by itself
if that's been entered or a decimal
point by itself or a minus decimal so
all we really have to do is clear the
text in the widget in that scenario so
that's it the app should still work but
I do have to be careful now how I tested
at this stage that at this stage though
remember that we haven't modified the
portrait layout yet so the layout tell
won't have a button egg and the curve
will crash if I run it in portrait mode
I'm going to start the emulator up I'm
going to run the app we're going to
switch to landscape before doing
anything else just to make sure it
doesn't crash and that's probably too
slow to do that now but I'll try so I'll
switch to landscape basically to avoid
the portrait code from running and
luckily the program is still compiling
so I'll just wait and speed this up
okay so you can see the apps running
because we're in landscape mode we
didn't crash and we can see our neg
button over here so let's see whether it
works I'm going to start by typing 58 x
9 pressing neg + 22 / neg if the
negative sign there 5 equals so
basically we end up with the value of
100 which is correct in this case so
basically saw that it's successfully
negates an existing number 9 and also
allowed for a negative number negative 5
to be entered now of course if I go try
to go back now to portrait mode we're
going to get a crash as we see straight
away and it said actually a
nullpointerexception if we have a look
in logcat a nullpointerexception
attempting to evoke virtual method and
it's for the button dot set
onclicklistener
and that is a course because we haven't
added the button to the portrait layout
yet now sometimes you have to create
different layouts so that your app looks
ok at different screen sizes doing that
does create extra work because you have
to maintain more than one layout now you
can test the app before modifying all
the layouts just like I did here to make
sure it all works before putting in the
effort to modify both layouts just be
careful to sit - emulator into the
working mode before running the app and
don't cause the other layout to be used
until you've gone ahead and created or
modified it alright so I'll end this
video here in the next one we'll make
changes to the portrait layout and add
the neg button to that portrait layout
to get it working and will then have the
app completed see you in the next video